# forms

A flexible responsive form-framework with some best practice tidbits. Ideal for large form applications like online borrowing requests, account opening processes or shopping checkouts.

You get:

- horizontal and columnar layout for large and small screens
- fully fluid form fields
- form groups
- block and inline checkboxes / radio groups
- disabled and readonly fields
- and more …


## Demo files

- [handlebars markup](https://github.com/nikita-kit/nikita-kickstarter/blob/master/source/assemble/pages/forms.hbs)
- [scss file](https://github.com/nikita-kit/nikita-kickstarter/blob/master/source/sass/blocks/_forms.scss)

To view the generated HTML-file, just use nikita.kickstarter.


## Documentation

### Structure

#### Form-Scaffold

The form consists of a header section, a section for the main content and a footer section.

```
<form class="b-forms" action="#">
	<header class="header">
		<!-- form header -->
	</header>
	
	<div class="main">
		<!-- form content -->
	</div>
	
	<footer class="footer">
		<!-- form footer -->
	</footer>
</form>
```


#### Fieldset-Scaffold

You can section the form by nesting your fieldsets.

```
<fieldset class="section">
	<legend>Section</legend>
	
	<!-- section content -->
	
	<fieldset class="subsection">
		<legend>Subsection</legend>
		
		<!-- subsection content -->
		
	</fieldset>
</fieldset>
```


#### Rows

The form is divided by rows.

```
<div class="row">
	<!-- row content -->
</div>
```


#### Boxes

Evey row can contain multiple boxes which can act as columns for example. Therefore each box gets an extra class, whereby you can control the size. At the moment you get four sizes: ```size-100``` (100%), ```size-75``` (75%), ```size-50``` (50%) and ```size-25``` (25%). If you need different ones, just define them in your SCSS.

```
<div class="box size-[number]">
	<!-- box content -->
</div>
```


#### Field

The field-container includes the ```<label />``` and the corresponding ```<input />```, ```<select />``` or ```<textarea />```. Each form-field gets a second class that describes the content inside – e.g. ```text``` for ```<input type="text />"``` or ```email``` for ```<input type="email" />```– so you can individually style your fields.

```
<div class="field [text|date|email|radio|checkbox|…]">
	<!-- field content -->
</div>
```


#### Input, Select and Textarea

In sake of accessibility it's mandatory to always have a ```<label />``` besides your input. To connect them use the for-attribute. The referenced elements are prefixed with ```ref-```. For simplicity ID-, for- and name-attributes use the same root word.

_Hint:_ Don't use the ID-, for- or name-attribute to style your form elements, because later it could be a random string generated by a CMS or something else. Better use the sibling- or parent-classes if you want a special styling.


#### Different Input Types

documentation coming soon!


#### Radio-Groups

documentation coming soon!


#### Checkboxes

documentation coming soon!


#### Grouped Form Elements

documentation coming soon!


#### Extra Form Components and Options

documentation coming soon!


### Supplement

To achieve a constant form-behaviour across all A-graded browsers, I recommend [Webshims Lib](https://github.com/aFarkas/webshim), a modular capability-based polyfill-loading library that implements the whole constraint validation API and comes with some other really nice form features.


## ToDo

developing better assemble/handlebars-integration
